definitions:

Islam women talking about sharia in.. talking about different things. Or talking about the same thing....

Definitions are useless... What does hse mean by sharia law.. what do you mean by sharia law! fuck you can't fukcing stone people to death bitch

https://www.theguardian.com/global/video/2017/feb/14/jacqui-lambie-and-yassmin-abdel-magied-clash-over-sharia-law-and-islam-on-qa-video

Object vs label!s

#### **Coming up next:**

Why should we go behind our value system?
Why are you differentiaing yourself from the brain. Aren't you all the same?
What other options do we have?
Another approach to determining the true value system? (Peter singer's essay)

Assuming that North doesn't change, I need to add a correction factor to my intuition or completely screw this shit and use a complete different devise to take me in the right direction. But is there any such devise that you can use devoid of your feelings H&Bs? Is your current compass any good? What about the solution in the head can we use that? 

What is the right direction? 
What does my ultimate value system want me to do? Is there an ultimate value system? What is more imporant? how do I decide
How do I discover more of the value system and how do I know I am right?


People are dying, they are helplessly waiting at the shore (metaphorically) and raising their arms towards the sky and saying help me. The Real Joke is I can help them, not all of them but a few atleast. and they are looking up to the sky with the belief that someone can pull them out of their misery. No one wants to suffer. When you see those videos, you fucking cry. Why not act? 

How far do I go? You want to help every single person at your feet. Why not all, why not as full retard as you can?

> It's like a game, you maximize the shit out of the score.

For what joy?
For the joy of the game!

Dont buy a ultra flat screen telivision, when yiour current one totally works fine. Don't buy a new house, when you already have 4 to 5 houses in the pipeline. Don't upgrade your car for another 100 000 Euros, All this is plain plain fucking useless. What do these material things give you anyway? Well then can I ask you to please give up your vacation? 

Outzaaat!

How about we start at 10%! 
What about my needs?
Please tell me you said what about my knees!

I think the key is to realize that w

He says that it is morally not relavent where the people are from, or whether we are at that location of trouble or not. If we want to help in the case of the Chinese girl, then we want to help everywhere as well, and we should use our brain to effectively use our resources to help them. He has the bloody nerve to add that people spend their money on not so important things like buying a bottle of water, when it is perfectly available to drink at the tap, or for that matter taking vacations even.  


I deserve to splurge in *insert random unwanted things such as pricy cars ipads, iphones, etc.*. I am convinced now about the uselessness of dedicating time and money to buying cars, ipads and iphones. The novelty wears off. Dedicating and saving shit loads of money in the end to buy a bmw which gives you say one month of happiness does not cut it for me. 


#### **in other words**



In socialistic countries such as Netherlands, Germany, Portugal the tax is extremely high. This helps to fund things like healthcare, loss of job insurance, free or dirt cheap education for the students along with loans with dead low interests. Their point is everyone gets access to education with as little monetary burden and then once they start makin money help out the newer generations. 

Healthcare also works in a similar way. Everyone has access to the same top quality healthcare. Everyone pays insurance or it is part of the taxes. This premium paid inturn takes care of those diseases like cancer that are rare and would need lot of money. Everyone benifits from such a system. 


Why would you spend your money on others?


How to stay motivatedd


Why should we listen to this asshole?
Hes a renowned **scien**tist, probably has his reasons to suggest

Which is more important fuccking women or funding charities? 

What do you want?

What does your valvue system want?

What are borders?

#### **The double standard conundrum**
#### **combining the heart and the head!** Reason
People are dying alfred what would you have me do?
Endure master wayne endure.

Why listen to feelings in the first place and then reject feelings later.!

What better is there to do?



#### **Reality**


#### **Assumption**

Why wouldn't you want to live as long as possible, if you are in good health, if you have good friends, family, you can still work and contribute to various important things. Why? Today you want to live tomorrow. Tomorrow you want to live another day. If the future is not too bad, why not live as long as you possibly can.

Assuming that your value system wants you to live as long as possible, and that in general, killing people is wrong,

#### Criticisms
But too many people in this world? limited resources
##### prolty
#### **Is being Frozen worth the money?**

#### **Break down into componenets**

> The essence of analysis is to "break it down", to take apart vague wholes into clearer parts.  For the same reasons we make point lists to help us make tough job decisions, or ask people who sue for damages to name an amount and break it into components, we should try to break down these important social claims via simple calculations.  And the absence of attempts at this is a sad commentary on something.    
-[Robin Hanson][break-cryonics-down]

Breaking down into components seems to give a better way of estimating costs. 

#### Striking difference

I was trying to find out the stance of Elon Musk on cryonics, when I came across this [quora page][quora_elon]. Here there was a comment by someone who was quoting [this article][cryonics_scam]. How do you go about deciding what choice we need to make

#### **Others**
When you tell others about this, immediately you are going to hear a laugh [conan]. 

Why would you wan't to live longer than 100? with the assumption that life is going to suck!

Thats so stupid, why do you think you are going to be revived?

Cryonics is a psuedo science?
Seems like it at first?


#### **Why marry?**

**What will you do for sex?**
I am a virgin. I have never even kissed a girl. I am fucking 26. I masturbate yes. If I am so desperate, I will go to the nearby red light area. In the country I live in, its quite easy to access these things. Although, there is this fear of fucking a really hot woman, if desperate can be done.



Assumptions: 
Your wife and you earn similar money. 
Expenses occurring during within a marriage:
1) marriage expenses by my parents and me ( a fucking lot; to the tune of atleast 7 lakh rs. ~=10000 Euros )
2) expenses in gifts during different days of the year
3) probability that your wife is a religious nut head

Benefits:

Get real, its not like you are going to have sex every fucking day for the rest of your life. 

In essence the comparison is paying for sex by marriage or to a prostitute. 


What am I doing now for sex

People who want to start a family

Marriage for men! jsut why?


kids,tuition, money that can be spend elsewhere?

What does your value system want?
#### **Open Issues**

1) Should you marry? 

2) benifits to marriage (tax wise)

3) 





Would you like your mother to die?

---------------------------
#### Paying for sex


#### Reality

The clncher... There is no scenario where this turns out to be good. No scenario

#### No cheating, no variety

#### Kids

#### After marriage

#### Advice

stay in control

#### Divorce
#### Also
marriages ending in divorce
P.S
Also need to check out reddit

#### **Probability**
P(naggine wife)
P(being in control)
P(sex 4 times a week for the next 10 years?)

#### **Different groups**
Indians - parents 
Indians - cousins (pr bala) 
Work Collegues

#### Thunai Old age and the like
#### 
India vs other non-conservative countries


##### The Independent women
>A woman who pays her own bills, buys her own things, and does not allow a man to affect her stability or self-confidence. She supports herself entirely on her own and is proud to be able to do so.    
-[wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_woman)

A woman who earns as much as the man or more, who doesn't depend on a man for economic security, I feel is all the more going to be a bigger bitch. She needs you for one thing less. The data is not abundant on this.

Looking at my parents, looking at all my female cousins and their respective male counter parts, looking at the people I know in chennai, looking at the people I know in Holland, considering the market in India on marriage websites, I am going to for now assume that these women are less in number. P(of getting married to such a women) = 30% chance lets say. 

----------------------
#### Also
marriages ending in divorce
P.S
Also need to check out reddit

#### **Probability**
P(naggine wife)
P(being in control)
P(sex 4 times a week for the next 10 years?)

#### **Different groups**
Indians - parents 
Indians - cousins (pr bala) 
Work Collegues

#### Thunai Old age and the like
#### 
India vs other non-conservative countries

Keeping room clean


-------------------------------------------------




I have an issue in my house.

It's hard to ask someone sorry, all the more harder if it is not fully your fault. In situations like this, what does the philosophy of revenge and grow dictate?

There have been a couple of situations, which I want to look back upon, and come up with what action I should have taken. My recent travels to India,

My bigger and most important need for this is that my mind is meant for higher purposes, I cannot and will not tolerate being consumed by literal shit that is social games, whose significance to the most important things in life is nil. More people are going to die in the time that you spend your time on social games.

What do you do when you do not have control!


standing up for yourself? when michal gives you some shit!
staircase incident urr
in the car incident!

For example, recently my good friend had an issue in his house. His roommates were smoking in his in the balcony and the smoke came into his room. He told them twice already. Frankly, I beleive this is the type of incident that consumes you. You don't want to die of cancer, they don't understand whats the problem. There is smoke in your room and you need to confront them, but they are high status people and you are afraid of confronting them every single time as they can be assholes. The roommates have been dicks, the roommates will be dicks. So he escalated it with to his landlord and luckily things got under control for him. Of course the roomates look at him as the villian. It is expected that the roommates having heard from the landlord regarding the escalation are going to come and talk to him. All the anxiety and drama, consumed me a third person, let alone another poor soul. I can remember the number of times, my brain would revisit the incident and ponder about it. I was present during one such conversations, I was adding social proof, and supporting my friend. I remember trying to argue with one of the roommates regarding the right thing to do, but I found myself a few minutes later thinking about what I should have told him during the time of the arguement.  He made an epic statement in the end, "I cannot live with Indians anymore. I am so angry, every single time I worked with them, it was a problem."

And now it is revenge time, every single thing my friend does will be made an issue of. The roommates dont talk with him anymore I guess.

It's a visious cycle that will only end 
My point is, after the initial conversations, I understand that he is stubborn. I cannot imagine a scenario that he 

--------


It is our desire to know the truth reliably. A few years back I had seen a TED talk delivered by Peter Singer, after it was suggested to me by an STM. In the ["purpose of life-continued"][th_purpose], I had discussed about this video, and that it did not provide convincing evidence for me to to know what I should do in life. 

>It seems rather convenient for Peter to use feelings to judge a situation as and when he wants. I am referring to the same [video] we were discussing in the [previous post]. Peter attempts to cleverly bait people into biting into his agenda of saving the world. He starts of with showing a video of a child being let to die mercilessly. He asks the audience how many of them would help if they were in that situation. Almost everyone bit the bait. I raised my hand as well. A few seconds later he says 6.9 million children died that year(2012), and we should help them. WTF! But I don't feel like helping them, it didn't pain me like the death of the child in the video. If it pains me, if I feel like it, then we can think about it. Having anticipated what I(and others) was going to say a few years later, Peter says in the lecture, that we should use some of our heart and some of our mind. He meant to say I think, that although we don't feel it, we should still help, i.e., we should not entirely listen to our feelings.    
    
>Well Well Well! What do we have here. To sum it up, he baits us with our feelings (with the video), later when feelings won't work for his agenda, he almost says, you can't keep listening to feelings, you need to calculatedly go beyond it. Word!
    
>My point is why go in the direction Peter is going, why not the other way round. Why not say, 6.9 million are dying every year (and we don't feel anything even after hearing it), so when we feel the pain of that one child in the video we should just ignore it? 

>We know that feelings are useless, they change 300 times a second and can't help us get anywhere with respect to knowing our true value system.
-["purpose of life-continued"][th_purpose]

One life has 'x' worth. 6.9 million lives have 'y' worth. We observe that 
#### Why do we wan't to know our true value system

Value system is defined as a set of values every human has owing to his hardwiring. Some examples of Values look like, "Humans do not kill babies", "Humans would like to save as many people as possible".

>It is clear, I have no idea what my true value system is. As in what the hell do I ultimately want to do. What does my value system want. Do I want to save people over getting a girlfriend, or the other way around. Right now, it is so unclear what I want when I look at my feelings for guidance, as it feels like it is changing 300 times a second. What I mean here is that feelings oscillate, its like your brain can’t make up its fucking mind on what it wants. One moment your eyes are pouring rain looking at the misery of people, the next you are looking at Facebook casually and the third you totally forget about the misery of those people you experienced in moment one. So you clearly don’t know what you want.

>Until now I have been blindly doing shit by following feelings. Feelings oscillating of course, but yeah I just focused on finding work, educating myself, masturbating and the shit. A year and a half back, my friend spends a lot of time in educating me on what I should be doing in life and what I want to be doing in life. Now that I have very limited worries, I want to pull my shit together, figure out the road I should be taking and work towards it. I am 26 in a few days, I don’t have many years to pick up new skills. Past is Past and we cannot waste any more time now. If the prophecy is true then I am loosing time, big time. So I better gear up and ascertain the truth behind the prophecy. That is the only reason to write, to think and act hence forth.

>The value system of a fish is I guess to procreate, take care of its clan and find and eat food. No one taught the fish what it needs to do. Its already hardwired into its system. Humans are similarly hardwired to want to do something. The why of it I am not going to get into. And from there H&B’s took over, but we know they suck in performing the task of representing the true value system. Currently my H&B’s are not enabling me well, as they have 3 different answers to the same question (as seen above). I want to know about my true value system, so that I can act in accordance to what I really want and not do things randomly as I would, being left in the hands of feelings, the oscillatanator.

>When being asked why I am following some stupid hardwiring, I don’t really have an answer. I can question it, but I don’t really get an answer. My only point is what else is there to do?. Should a fish then just commit suicide or should it write code, or should it just flap its fins and die or should it build ships? Everything seems to be determined for the fish from the basis of its value system. I am not sure why it is any different for human beings. I am born with some predispositions. It appears I have a strong inclination to work towards my true value system. The very evidence being the very existence of H&B’s. H&B’s work as design rules to imitate the value system. But they suck, and now I am on my own to know and act in accordance to the value system.

>It appears that the solution inside my head wants me to follow my value system.   
-["purpose of life-continued"][th_purpose]
---------------------------------








1. All humans don't want to pay more than 88 as they have other things more important to purchase.

I guess it was something like their good deed for the year. Of course it had nothing to do with the number of birds. If for some reason we give some benifit to this hypothesis, then we see that it is accepted as 'good' to help save birds.

1. Humans made the calculation that irrespective of the number of birds, you only need 1 net.

Irrespective of the size of the birds, you only need one net. Maybe this is the thing that shows? I can't imagine that many people had any idea regarding the costs of production to make such a net feasible. But then there needs to be a whole sort of calculation as to how many people donate and the total cost, then allowing one to calculate the actual sum he needs to put in this WTP. I would call this a fail. I am not able to imagine people doing all this math with guess numbers before they came to a conclusion. I guess it is fair to say just a number based on the emotional state.


1. "purchase of moral satisfaction"
 

1. WTP proportional to the image created.

1. 










>increasing the alleged risk of chlorinated drinking water from 0.004 to 2.43 annual deaths per 1000 - a factor of 600 - increased willingness-to-pay from $3.78 to $15.23.   
-[Eliezer in his blog on scope insensitivity][ele_scope]


>[People visualize][ele_scope] "a single exhausted bird, its feathers soaked in black oil, unable to escape" 

Humans don't understand the difference between 10000 hairs and 100,000 hairs. We can imagine it, but we can't "feel" it.

These humans seem to be scope insensitive. Nothing scales, let alone proportionally.

My friend would not have paid one euro to all the dying folk in the world. Suddenly after seeing that his x-teachers daughter had a disease, he donated 75 euros straight. I am afraid of using more of these sentences as it starts another web of hypotheses, that is hard for a pandian like myself to track. That's why I wan't to stick with basic for now. Upgrade later.

1) Humans care for all birds, not just the first 2000. It's because of messed up H&B's

The very fact that we donated in the first place, seems to tell me that we care, doesn't it? 

Money is the unit of caring. Put your money where your care is. No impact no right to "care".

Studies have shown that willingness to pay, has a logarithmic or no relationship with respect to scope size in general, not just for birds. The ability of people to donate to charities somehow is bound by some numbers irrespective of the number of children being saved. One explanation is in terms of [judgment of prototype][wiki_scope]

>The story [...] probably evokes for many readers a mental representation of a prototypical incident, perhaps an image of an exhausted bird, its feathers soaked in black oil, unable to escape,"[4] and subjects based their willingness-to-pay mostly on that mental image.

From somewhere we get the idea that somehow x euros will be enough.

They want to help but are unwilling to do more!


**Reflection**
Humans pay literally the same to save birds irrespective of their number.

The first assumption is that 

Repeatability

Money is the unit of caring.

All humans don't care about birds. 

This is representative? How?

What about birds less than 2000

What is the connection of this to 1 person and 6.9 million
---
**Hypothesis**

**Observation:**
I don't feel the proportional pain when I see 1 person die, as when I hear 6.9 million people dying.

What does my value system actually wan't? Does it want me to extrapolate the pain I see for 1 person to 6.9 million people, and take action hence, or does it want me to extrapolate the pain I see from 6.9 million people (basically nothing), to the one person? or Does it wan't me to jsut listen to feelings? 

I could be living in many different type of worlds.




#### Oddity

We want to determine the true value system. What we have currently is a layer of H&B's over it. Isn't what we are seeing H&B's? How can we ever go to the actual value system? 

When 83% of the data pays, couldn't it just be the manifestation of the H&B's playing a cruel trick? This is the part I am not able to digest. 83% of the people donating means that I wan't to save birds, but if those 83% don't pay for more than 2000 birds or more money, then we say H&B's. Painful! An STM, pnn!
---



Take the intuition wherein you want to save the life of a child who is dying right now, right next to you, who got run over by van. You very well know that you have to pay 10k right now and you won't get it back. But what I just said was hypothetical, whereas in real life, there are millions of children dying. Your intuition wanted to save the dying child now, so you should be atleast saving one child now although the emotional quotient is high?

Well should I just ask my self from within, and get the answer that is best suited? So should I just question myself asking, why it makes a difference if the person is next to me or not. It's a helpless child, why am I calculating what I feel into the picture? when I want that child to be alive?

My second intuition could be right and I have to extrapolate the intuition to the first...

Well you feel too stongly against this?

You also feel too strongly against going shopping should you?
But its just shopping. how can you compare that with saving a life? 

I still cant make sense of the reaonsing I am providing myself regarding this.. I need to define I feel like, something consistant and then go by it. not keep making excuses as they come up. Make the hypothesis before testing it?

our brain has some shortcomings, it can't naturally multiply, it can't naturally compare different situations.



#### What I am worried about

Prejudice!



But now I have already discussed this with my friend, a million times and seen enough footage online, that nowadays, I cry for everything. I cry for every scene in batman, Gandhi! I just need to think of it and bam! Water falls! The point I am trying to make is I am convinced on some level, and I don't want my prejudice to guide me to the answer! But maybe you cant help it or maybe you cam. 
My intuition re
garding saving people is lets say X. and then I feel I want to conclude and this is over. But no, I am afraid, that I already "know the answer" and I might make

Eleizer says, bro, you don't stop looking for an answer once you think something is or feel something is. but then despite further reasoning, observation, rational thought, if it still appears to stay the same then ok!

Lets do the first question we did now with the new reasoning abilities we have gained?


Science can always look at Hueristics and biases are always there to probably tell you better. Better how?


#### The same question

An induvidual child gets significantly more funds than a group of 8 children despite the target group being the same. 

How can it be significantly more better to have 1,312,44




If this is the case, then it can be imagined

I have 200 $ and I can spend it on a trivium concert or I can send it to Give Well and probably contribute to saving 



It seems not too hard to imagine someone keeping a person at gunpoint, and threatening you to give up your 60k TV that you just bought, so you can save this mans life. Will you do it? Of course you will. 


Wants seem to be divided into things that are primal, secondary, tertiary and so on. Primary wants would be, 'I want food', 'I want girlfriends', 'I want a social life', 'I want to keep warm', 'I want my people to live', 'I want to live' and the like...

We want some wants more than others. These wants, also vary based on other factors and as a result change with time. Like for example, **NOW** I see there is a sick want to get girlfriends despite the fact that there are other things to do as there are so many millions of people suffering. But **if I am in a situation** where there is one person dying and I need to give up the only time I actually get laid in my life, well I guess I would. It seems not too hard to imagine someone keeping a person at gunpoint, and threatening you to give up your 60k TV that you just bought, so you can save this mans life. Will you do it? Of course you will. But, there are people metaphorically being kept at gunpoint by yamadeva (the dying people) and yet we don't do anything to save them. It's just a fucking TV. But how many TV's is one life worth and how many TV's is 10 lives worth. 

Based on these, there are the secondary and tertiary wants so to naively speak, such as : wanting toned abs, wanting tasty foods, wanting a cool social cirlce, wanting hip clothes, wanting the latest IPAD, Mercedes etc. This we call for now as secondary wants as they are based on primary wants.

We think some secondary or tertiary wants will get us to our primary wants. If you look at the nature of people trying to workout, I imagine one of the reasons is with the hope that it gets girls. To be properly toned takes a couple of years. There seem to be far better techniques with faster and quicker results that we could pursue instead.

The real question is what do we want to do, owing to our vascillatory nature. It is clear there is no consistancy.Where do we go from here?

Summary is that what we want seems to be circular, now what?


So we seem to want some wants more than others. Like for example, we can don't mind giving up a 60k Television when someone is held at gunpoint.

I would like to figure out what I should be doing. If I should 


#### Reason for such problems

Evolutoin and the like


----



When we talk about religion, it appears that people don't easily bow down to reason; (as though you do!). They think blind faith is justified. For them the effects of social proof is seemingly more important than reason. They have told themselves and using confirmation bias fooled themselves so much that they cannot change? The very first flag for me is that they beleive in an almost random book, 0 evidence. They give you shit that is absolutely unacceptable by the standards of science. Just because their surroundings seem to think it is THE book, it's not fair to trust social proof to such extents. They are quite closed as no points of view can convince them even with facts being blatantly wrong in the book (such as the earth is not flat).

My point seems to be that they don't bow to reason. They hold on to something, merely because they have been holding on to it for a while, social proof, maybe thats the way they have been brought up. They do not see the discrepency when they use science when you need to build an aircraft, a 100 storey building, but somehow think it is sane to trust something without any evidence what so ever, despite them being against known facts. We use science because it works. It predicts things. It has a far more better success rate than your friendly neighbourhood FAITH. So yes. Reason where art thou?

Leave the terrorists. Let's go for something simple. Like how your parents or a good population still continue to be theists. I myself tried to speak to several people. Every convert (to atheism) might have tried speaking to others. People are not ready to change their beliefs. It's hard. There is a very high resistance to change something that is so dear to you, something that you beleived for years. It requires you to accept that you are wrong. Maybe there are some other things that seem to be more important than reason according to their solution in their head.




---



I think after a point you just have to accept something, as there is nothing to argue from!

I understand that 
Assuming that I do find the utility and all the variables that are necessary to make the calculations towards the true value system,

So what do we do... I see that we can go in search of the true value system and maximize it's utility.
Hail the value system

do what you do? Find yourself in circular preferences. and make shitty decisions regardign children who desparately need your help.

There is no god, and people are streching their hands to the sky, asking someone for help. Little do they know that they are axing you for help. Little did I know that I was being axed help.

or what else?

Suicide?

In the end send the whole of this shit for peerreviewed reasonging.s
Peer-reviewed resonning!


So what should we do? The shortcomings of feelings has been presented all along. I guess its just a decision making thing. They are circular, not extrapolatable, inconsistant etc... If you continue to only rely on them, especially to make calculations regarding your value system, then good luck.

Today I am at work and my team has a bunch of 'stories' in our backlog. We are looking at prioritising each of the stories so we have some way of knowing what is important. My DL just happened to give numbers to every story. If a story has '50' its super important, if a story has '15', then it is not as important as the one that has '50' priority. I understand the reasoning as to why he chose a number, higher than something else. but how do you make a computer do this?

Ultimately its all a feeling. If someone axes you how you came up with a number you can give some reasonsing. If they ask you why its 50 and not 51 or not 52. With the limited capacity of this brain, we do what we can. We leave a lot to the intelligent beings.

With this, I probably shall figure out more in detail about what I need to do. And start my first ever contribution to the Give Well foudnation.


#### Base feelings

The larger goal seems to be that we want to have consistant wants, non-fragile wants, non-silly wants, wants that last despite some shit feelings based on shitass calculations.

The fault with the brain roughly speaking seems to be calculations, extrapolations, large numbers, inconsistent feelings, different feelings for the same event based on different sensory experiences. Some other examples, would be is that you brain is trying to map reality using sensory organs. Based on whether it sees something or hears something, the situation within us completely is different. Imagine hearing that 6 million people are dying. Not phased one bit. Show me one peta or allepo video, tears.

As Thalaivar says,

>"Intuition", as a term of art, is not a curse word when it comes to morality - **there is nothing else to argue from**.  Even modus ponens is an "intuition" in this sense - it's just that modus ponens still seems like a good idea after being formalized, reflected on, extrapolated out to see if it has sensible consequences, etcetera.

It's not a curse word, stop thinking of feelings as some low level piece of shit. As we have seen earlier, there is nothing else to argue from. Every thing is a feeling, and that is all we have. We realize that feelings are problematic but then there seems to be something we can do. Right now probably the only thing we can do. The only rule of thumb available seems to be the one that Eleizer says,

>The obvious choice isn’t always the best choice, but sometimes, by golly, it is. I don’t stop looking as soon I find an obvious answer, but if I go on looking, and the obvious-seeming answer still seems obvious, I don’t feel guilty about keeping it. Oh, sure, everyone thinks two plus two is four, everyone says two plus two is four, and in the mere mundane drudgery of everyday life everyone behaves as if two plus two is four, but what does two plus two really, ultimately equal? As near as I can figure, four.    
-Eliezer on [Why truth][ele_truth]

> ... Formalize, reflex, extrapolate it to see if it has sensible consequences, etc...

When you see someone tell you that "The snow is white if and only if the snow is white", what do you do?

Although the sentence seems to be giving us trivial information, I think its one of those statements that you choose to accept or not. The snow is white by definition if and only if the snow is white. The snow is said to be white only if the snow is white. It appears like a fundamental statement. It seems to make sense.The snow can be said to be white, if and only if the snow is actually white. The statement the snow is white becomes both the point as well as the if condition. It makes sense, I feel like I understand it. It seems to tell that you have to accept it. There is not much reason. but it seems obvious. There is no other reason why the snow is white. You care for children's lives, if and only if you care for children's lives.

>Paraphrasing Eleizer, As far as I can figure out 2+2 gives 4. The idea being if you have 2 un-reacting stones, side by side along with 2 more of them, in total you should have 4, and not 3 for example. That is what 2+2 means. Its a facilitator that helps us in daily life to know in advance what we will have in the end. Its a rule of the universe!


#### Reflection

Often we find ourselves, in a situation when we feel absolutely sleepy, but then we push ourselves for something better, something whose reward might be much further in life. There are cases when feelings is not the only thing we go by. We might feel like shit, and still we might have stuck to what seems right than what is feelings. We are capable of doing this

It's not that we want to be completely happy all the time. Sometimes we are ok with letting go of somthing for someone else. Look at Gandhi, look at batman, look at the several thousand activists who work on their ability to give...


P.S

Was drudging the part where in I had nothing to write baout, and when the momnet came, I found things to write. The goal should not be to write intelligently, but to write quantity. Ideas will come. Be patient?



**Hypothesis**

**Observation:**
I don't feel the proportional pain when I see 1 person die, as when I hear 6.9 million people dying.

What does my value system actually wan't? Does it want me to extrapolate the pain I see for 1 person to 6.9 million people, and take action hence, or does it want me to extrapolate the pain I see from 6.9 million people (basically nothing), to the one person? or Does it wan't me to jsut listen to feelings?

I could be living in many different type of worlds.




#### Oddity

We want to determine the true value system. What we have currently is a layer of H&B's over it. Isn't what we are seeing H&B's? How can we ever go to the actual value system?

When 83% of the data pays, couldn't it just be the manifestation of the H&B's playing a cruel trick? This is the part I am not able to digest. 83% of the people donating means that I wan't to save birds, but if those 83% don't pay for more than 2000 birds or more money, then we say H&B's. Painful! An STM, pnn!
---



Take the intuition wherein you want to save the life of a child who is dying right now, right next to you, who got run over by van. You very well know that you have to pay 10k right now and you won't get it back. But what I just said was hypothetical, whereas in real life, there are millions of children dying. Your intuition wanted to save the dying child now, so you should be atleast saving one child now although the emotional quotient is high?

Well should I just ask my self from within, and get the answer that is best suited? So should I just question myself asking, why it makes a difference if the person is next to me or not. It's a helpless child, why am I calculating what I feel into the picture? when I want that child to be alive?

My second intuition could be right and I have to extrapolate the intuition to the first...

Well you feel too stongly against this?

You also feel too strongly against going shopping should you?
But its just shopping. how can you compare that with saving a life?

I still cant make sense of the reaonsing I am providing myself regarding this.. I need to define I feel like, something consistant and then go by it. not keep making excuses as they come up. Make the hypothesis before testing it?

our brain has some shortcomings, it can't naturally multiply, it can't naturally compare different situations.



#### What I am worried about

Prejudice!



But now I have already discussed this with my friend, a million times and seen enough footage online, that nowadays, I cry for everything. I cry for every scene in batman, Gandhi! I just need to think of it and bam! Water falls! The point I am trying to make is I am convinced on some level, and I don't want my prejudice to guide me to the answer! But maybe you cant help it or maybe you cam.
My intuition re
garding saving people is lets say X. and then I feel I want to conclude and this is over. But no, I am afraid, that I already "know the answer" and I might make

Eleizer says, bro, you don't stop looking for an answer once you think something is or feel something is. but then despite further reasoning, observation, rational thought, if it still appears to stay the same then ok!

Lets do the first question we did now with the new reasoning abilities we have gained?


Science can always look at Hueristics and biases are always there to probably tell you better. Better how?


#### The same question

An induvidual child gets significantly more funds than a group of 8 children despite the target group being the same.

How can it be significantly more better to have 1,312,44


----------------------------------------------------

#### **Utility function**

So maybe, one life is worth X and n lives are worth nX. Now some other event maybe worth Y and m times that might be worth mY. We know we can't necessarily trust the brain with all sorts of calculations. But then the brain can point to what we might want in life, provided we eliminate error points, as seen earlier. Maybe we can take an isolated incident and run in our minds and determine its possible value. Then we check it against actions in the world. For example, So it maybe possible to know if X>Y or Y>X. It may also be possible to determine its value say using money. I am sure I can come up with something other than the value of life that is worth to me say Y. m*Y can be greater than X (saving one life), where m can be sufficiently large. What happens in this case? What if Y is something as silly as having sex.

For now let us assume that all lives are valued the same to our true value system. So that leaves us with n lives worth nX. Another event is valued to us at say Y per event. 

I could write, or watch youtube, or wank or do something else, but I choose to write after some deliberation. Why? Are we trying to maximize something? Seems like it. Are we trying to maximize for happiness? No. We are ready to give up sex, food and money, and sometimes we might also be ready to take some pain to save someone. Remember Gandhi? He gave up everything and led a simple life. There was only one thing that was important to him. He was jailed, he often starved for days at a stretch, he went through a wide amount of discomfort, for what? He was trying to maximize something. Perhaps the welfare of his folk? But Why? Is it more important to him than his life, health etc.? He also had many 100's of followers atleast, who accompanied him on his path wherein they were beaten and jailed as well. What were those losers trying to maximize?

So maybe, one life is worth X and n lives are worth nX. Some other event maybe worth Y and m times that might be worth mY. And similarly many other events and numbers. We have the decision to choose which task? It seems that we do it sub-consciously, and it manifests as feelings having done all such "calculations". We know we can't necessarily trust the brain with all sorts of calculations, but then the brain can point to what we might want in life, it our only clue, our only hope. Maybe we can take an isolated incident and run it in our minds and determine its possible value. Then we check it against actions in the world. So it maybe possible to know if X>Y or Y>X.

We are able to make choices. For example, when we are in a situation where we have to save a life or continue having sex, we would happily choose to save the life. So we are able to make choices, and tradeoffs. Naively speaking, So it seems like Event Y (sex) is less favorable that event X(saving a life). In other words, value from Event X > Value from Event Y.

Is it then alright to say that it appears that there is a utility function such that:

	$ Utility function = a1 *X + a2 *Y +a3 *Z + ...

Where in at any given point of time in life, you can do a couple of things, which will maximize the Overall utility. So when we save a life, our utility function becomes quite high as compared to having sex at a given moment. Maybe it is much more complex than this, but for now, lets go on with this simple model.

For now we call this the utility function, a function with all sorts of variables, which outputs a single number for us to know how our actions have faired. And yes you guessed it right, we have to uncover what is important to this utility function as well. Which variable is scaled high etc...

The utility function for example can be made of variables such as 'number of happy life years added', 'contribution back to the society', 'number of lives saved now', 'number of lives saved in the future' but as always we have to discover it, uncover it.
How do I go about determining what is important to this system?(!)

It appears that the brain might have a utility function that needs to be maximized as much as possible with the available resources.
#### **Further options**

All the above is fine. I have a strong want to satisfy my value system. I have feelings which are part of me which attempt to satisfy the value system. But then they only attempt, and are far from satisfying the true value system.

There is this idea inside me that there are three things I can possibly do.
1) Follow the true value system, and get benefited as a by-product by the [evidence][martin_ted] shown by Martin Seligman on 'life of flow' and 'life of purpose'.

It's going to be hard. It will probably involve a lot of writing, and critical thinking and most importantly ACTION leading to impact.

2) Do what I am currently doing, like everyone else, continue to have those circular preferences, focus on the pleasurable life i.e., girls, video games, buying stuff etc. Learn an instrument and a sport and really be good at it and enjoy the life of flow. There is [undeniable evidence][martin_ted] where in Martin Seligman shows that the pleasurable life can only take you so far and that the life of flow will take you further. So have a mix of both?

This is what seems to come naturally to me. It's much easier than option 1. It's a mixture of pure feelings and some thought.

3) Don't do anything, just die off, because this whole life doesn't make sense. Why are you listening to some random stupid value system in the first place, especially considering that it just happened somehow that we have values?

There is just no point in life. Why are we trying to maximize the value system of some random event(evolution). Who cares? Look at this whole life system from the higher point of view. It seems to have no meaning. Just like how we look at ants. Absolutely purposeless, is their existence. Why are we any different? Just like ants, we also do so many things to fulfill our value system.

So we don't have a conclusion on the value of n lives being nX. We think that


I wan't to bring up an example. There are about 7 crore (70 million) people in tamil nadu. There was this show called Big Boss, where a couple of celebrities go into a house and stay there for 100 days. The show actively involves the audience, by asking them to vote for the people whom they would like to continue seeing in the house. There was this girl Oviya, who was very sweet to people, loving and caring, but got cornered somehow by all the housemates. Every week since the beginning of the show she got nominated by her housemates, and the audience never failed to save her. The audience fully loved her. One of the housemates she was consoling after a bitch fight, randomly turned the plot against her, adn lot of problems happened. In the end the audience loved this girl so much, that they kept saving her. The housemates hated her from the inside. The point I am trying ot make is, the show is well wrapped up for an audience, and the audience think it is their duty to save her. There was also a group in my whatsapp, where people would seriously discuss the wrong doings to oviya, so much so that they would get angry and sad. People seem to not like the idea that someone is beign abused, or someone has to undergo pain, when the very well don't deserve it, or for no fault of theirs. This is like polled. The same thing happened with another housemate, who was cornered so much that he had to leave the household. he was wrongly accused of wrong doings, and people in the house turned against him to keep  in line with the group. But as the audience saw it, he did no mistake. The audience could only do so much to save the guy, who so badly wanted to leave as he couldn't take the pressure. Luckily all the shit created inside was somehow contained and he is able to lead a very nice life back again. About half a crore of people have been said to have watched it. Of course many others watched pirated versions of it. So many people didn't like the unfair things done to oviya and bharani. There are many more people who are probably suffering much more than Oviya and Bharani, what about them?

####Taking things to its logical conclusion
----------------------------------------------



As we know from earlier a dying life is very important and since visal stimulation creates higher emotional arousal, there by importance, I am keen on classifying visual stuff as more real. emotional arousal thus seems to translate to higher importance. 

if I am walking past a shallow pond and see a child drowning in it, I ought to wade in and pull the child out. This will mean getting my clothes muddy, but this is insignificant, while the death of the child would presumably be a very bad thing. I believe there will be high emotional arousal in this situation. It appears that we might have high emotional stimulation when there is something very important to us. For example, when someone is about to commit suicide and we are around, or there are 40000 people with no hope but death closing in on them, or when a baby is drowning. We have very high emotional stimulation, albeit for a small time. Maybe high emotional arousal tries to tell us what is important to us.

It seems easy to imagine why we are unable to hold on to the important 


People seem like they want to help. Some people go all the fucking way. Most do nothing. They are fine with appreciating people who go all the way. They say, " He is a fucking exmaple, we should all learn from" and yet, we are back home wanking uselessly.

So which emotional response is the right one in the case of death?
Because we know that Visual stimulation creates high emotional arousal than other forms, we would like to stick to cases that have high emotional arousal, as they seem to reflect the reality. 

So in other words, we see an impact and we take the max arousal (scenario1, scenario2, scenario3 etc...) as the real arousal for an impact. Because the one with the max arousal somehow reflects the true value system. We know that Visual stimulation creates high emotional arousal than other forms.


Why can't it be that the value 


We have several biases and hueristics

#### Why we tear up looking at the suffering of people?

a) no reason
b) because it is important to the value system
c)  

We usually cry when we are pain, physical or mental. When I was a kid I used to cry when my dad scolded me. I would cry when my parents die. I cried when my grandma died. I cried when I was struggling mentally when I disfigured my face. I cry looking at the pain others feel. I tore up watching in all of the above mentioned videos/posts. I cried when my reality was shaken when I realized there is going to be no GOD.

I guess we cried and we cry, when it is painful, physically or mentally; This pain being undesirable. 

#### We cry for short times
Condition of the brain.

#### 
When I am not, I am thinking about girls, sports, social games people play, social games you are involved in. The difference is day and night. 

Tearing up lasts for a few seconds, and after that the motivation to change the world dies. 

We know that feelings are not always representative and we seek the times when they are? Yes.


#### Tearing up

I am very much present on Facebook and youtube. Posts are hailed by a lot of people in the community, when posts show people standing up for racism, save lives etc... 

A page on facebook called [Humans of Bombay][] in a particular example seems to attract very easily, funds of the order of 20 lakhs, in a matter of 2 hrs. You read that piece they wrote on the person who needs the funds, your heart will sink. She was an acid attack victim and she has a daughter to raise. Almost everyone who reads this piece, sympathizes with the victim. It was actually pretty easy to raise the funds. I am sure that organizations helping out acid attack victims, are still quite underfunded. Based on the availability and the popularity of a story, a life is saved in the end.

A guy adopts orphan kids who are having ailments that is almost sure to kill them. He wan'ts to be there for them in their last days, give them support and comfort. This is a story that will move anyone to tears. Everyone feel


And then I looked at a video from [south sudan][fuck_me]. 40,000 people having fled their home state. For a minute I weep my ass out. I know this is what I should be doing. Here I am complaining about my silly ass fucked up lifestyle. Saying "ball is life", what about my vacation? At the moment when I saw the video, everything could theoritically go to hell. What about these fucking emotions?
Bitch! What do these indicate? What is the truth, what is the value system.

I feel extremely powerless to do anything for them. As vivek says in the movie same when his wife talks about orphans as "idhungalaam", he says, " Kolandhel di". Fucking young children, flyes mounting on them. So fucking sad. I am tearing up as I imagine the footage and writing about this! Here I am who can't tdo anything rather,,,,, who doesn't choose to do everything he can!

here I am thinking that about what my collegues would say when I don't take a vacation. 9 fucking children die every fucking day. How can I afford to think about girls and shit like that. How can I think about myself, when every thing that I want is for these people to have atleast some life. they were wlaking for 6 weeks. Fuck me. Fuck me.

I sereiously want to discuss with an STM what the fuck we can do? and if he has any ideas regarding what I should do. I want to do a lot. And how do you do a lot?

Its been 5 minutes after the event. and here I am returning to my state of normalcy. I see people walking hand in hand, wearing tight motherfucking pants, showing their ass, and just getting on with life. Let's stop acting like life is normal. There is a nearby village fucking burning into tatters.

As discussed above if all emotions that I had in this case was real, because it had all the charactersitics that I typically want such as visual stimulation and extremely high emotional arousal, then wha

Virat kohli tweets a video of a mother beating her child. The child of age ~6 years learning numbers,  visibly torn and scared AF because her mother beats her if she is wrong. Virat kohli condemns this. Several people share this video and it becomes viral. Stupic mother clicked the video in the first place. but what does this mean that our actions stads should fall down from here now that we have done our job?

So what is all this fucking feeling sad about stuff about?

Am I still going round and round.

Raise donations!



Chnnai sunami, munich shooting, friend coming home,



#### So What do we forbid

- It appears that we forbid, things that involve large numbers. 

- Feelings are more pronounced when visually stimulated; That is to say that when I see someone getting hurt, I am more pained, than knowing someone is getting hurt some where else in the world. So we allow for now only activities, where we are close by to the situation, and those where we can impact directly and immediately.

- I told my parents this today. I told them that spending money in euros, even if it is 1 euro is quite painful. Where as I remember days after days, where without a second thought took an uber, or ate at subway. When I am in India I spend quite well, than what I do in holland. It could be that, until now when I spent money in india it was my dads. Something that was like an infinite cashflow. I never really saw what happened to the numbers in the bank. I am afraid it is because of the fact that I was all the time spending my dads money instead of mine.

Another thing that I am worried about using money is that the value of money does not scale well. What I try to mean by that is that, I am ready to spend 600 bucks extra a year on a house. But spending an extra 100 at home is quite pricy! I am ready to pay a flat number of 300 bucks, and nothing more, but I find myself spending a lot more than 300 on other things, like getting my parents gifts.

Can money value be given to determine the actual value of something?
Why not? if you see someone dying how much will you pay to save their lives? How much are you WTP for a playstation?

- Money you don't yet forbid from using to compute the value of something.

Can I do this?

If I am ready to pay more than


How do we define value of something




#### Emotional stigma




#### Planning...

This faulty system is the only thing we have. We also have Science, Bayes, computers, writing, etcetera, to help us determine the True value system. We know from before that if we go by only the feelings, we are stuck with circular preferences, if we let go of feelings completely then we are but an empty rock. So we seem to have an option where we look at our intuitions and then from there, see if it makes sense, extrapolate it and so on.

We know places where the feelings are quite wrong. So we should attempt to strip a problem down to its very basics or keep the questions we put forth to our brain simple, such that we stay away from the regions of errors. 
- We could attempt to determine the value of a single event and then compare that with the value of other events. As a hypothetical situation, if we are able to determine that the value of life is 10$ to us and that if the value of saving a bird is 20$, then it might be clear what needs to be done.

- Or we could compare two events straight up and see which wins in a simplistic battle. For example, we could attempt something like asking us, what we would do in a particular situation, where there is a possibility of saving a life as opposed to say having sex. Attempt to understand the value system from different angles, and of course question every possible outcome from the above action.

I see myself leaning to the latter and let the games begin...

#### Comparing

Let's go for the example, that we have always talked about in the past.

1. Let's say there is an ice cream truck on your left and a man is about to shoot himself to your right, whom you can attempt to save without any damage to you physically.

What would you do? It seems rather obvious. There seems to be no question in my mind. I would do what I can to save the man's life.

**Corollary:**

- If I substituted the ice cream truck with one of the most hyped pleasurable activities I can imagine such as sex, it appears to me that I should still want to save the life. 

- Whether the  person is close by or not, whether you can see/hear the person or not, a life in distress is more valuable to us when compared to other pleasurable activities. 

**Extension**
Money can buy us several pleasurable activities such as food, luxury, women, plane tickets etc... If all I do with money is to buy pleasurable activity, and if all pleasurable activity is meaningless in the face of a distressed life, then does it mean that all my money is worth a life? 

When I have limited money, I guess I can figure out a way on how to spend my money on different lives. but thats not the question we are trying to answer here.

2. Let's say there are 100 million icecream trucks on your left and a man is about to shoot himself to your right, whom you can attempt to save without any damage to you physically?

What would you do? Wait a minute but I do not understand large numbers right! So I should skip this right? Lets answer it anyways. I feel that no matter what pleasurable activities I have and in any number, they will mean nothing to me, in the face of the death of a human being. But if its about money, then the story might be different. I had no hesitation when I made the statement about pleasurable activities meaning nothing. But when I talk about money I just can't say things without hesitation. How much is a life worth to me? Forget what i can do with the money or how many more lives I can save! Is a life important to me as much as the house I own? 

Any amount of pleasurable activity cannot allow the killing of a life, then if I would be ready to invest about a 100 euros a month when I have a girlfriend, I should be more than ready to invest 100 euros/ month in a life. Because people are dying and I seem to choose the dying man instead of pleasurable activities.

3. 
#### pain and death

I weeped like a fucking bitch watching the video of south sudan. Believe it or not there were flies mounting a fucking child. I don't know what to make of it. They are in a fucking bad situation. Currently where they are, it is malaria prone. Whenever it rains it is flooded. Fuck me! I feel like all the rich people should do more. For example, Virat Kohli... these people can really make a difference. But what about me?

If one life death is so fucking important, then what about 100 deaths, and what about 1000 fucking deaths, you should pretty much have a stroke.

#### Naive reasoning weep like a child for the past

1) For example, if you look at the above we see that I assume so many things, I assume the emotional arousal to be representative of the value system, what is the logic? 

2) Willingness to pay need not be reality.

3) I am afraid I am going in circles. Either I am a caveman or I find myself wanting to be an empty rock.

